---
layout: post
title:  "TermSuite 2.0 is out !"
categories: news
date: 2015-11-27
author: Damien Cram
excerpt: >
  TermSuite 2.0 has been released. 2.0 is a major version of TermSuite.
---

TermSuite 2.0 has been released. 2.0 is a major version of TermSuite. It is now supported by project [ISTEX](http://www.istex.fr/).

### Refactoring of TermSuite 1.5 and 1.6

Last version of TermSuite (1.6) was a very partial refactoring of TermSuite 1.5, i.e the final version as the end of project TTC. The version 2.0 is a full refactoring of internal data model, Java API and command line API. TermSuite is now completely based on UIMAfit and has no XML component configuration file anymore.

TermSuite 1.x used to come with three aggregate engines: the spotter, the indexer, and the aligner. Now in 2.0, **the spotter and the indexer have been merged into a single AE, the terminology extractor**. As a consequence, the two main components of TermSuite left are:

 * the [terminology extraction](/documentation/java-api/#terminology-extraction),
 * the [multilingual alignment](/documentation/java-api/#run-bilingual-alignment-bilingualaligner).

TermSuite supports five languages with good performances: french, english, german, spanish, and russian. Partial support for latvian, chinese and danish is inherited from TermSuite 1.5 and project TTC. TermSuite 2.0 refactoring improved quantitative performances thanks to its new data model. Qualitative performances have also inscreased due to the new.

### New features

Main features introduced in TermSuite 2.0 are:

 * Morphology analysis and morphosyntactic variant detection (*chemotherapy* and *chemohormonal therapy*),
 * Graphical variant gathering now supports multiword terms,
 * Convenient [Java API](/documentation/java-api/) with class `TermSuitePipeline`,
 * TermSuite's resources are now packages in a different file, (see [Resource documentation](/documentation/resources/))
 * Significant linguistic improvements for syntactic and morphosyntactic variant gathering in five languages: `fr`, `en`, `de`, `ru`, and `es`.
 * Configurable TSV export for terminologies, (see [export options](/documentation/command-line-api/#export))
 * New human readable format for syntactic and morphosyntactic variant resources,
 * Exportation/importation to/from human readable json (TermSuite's new native serialization format for terminologies).

See [TermSuite Changelog](/changelog/) for an exhaustive list of changes.

### Public access, Github, Maven

TermSuite 2.0 now has a [public website](/) with an [online documentation](/documentation).

TermSuite's source code has moved to [Github]({{site.github}}) in order to make contributions to TermSuite easier. It is also now possible to embed TermSuite in your application thanks to its Maven dependency:

{% highlight xml %}

<dependency>
  <groupId>fr.univ-nantes.termsuite</groupId>
  <artifactId>termsuite-core</artifactId>
  <version>{{site.termsuite.version}}</version>
</dependency>

{% endhighlight %}

### Graphical User Interface

Due to the refactoring of the data model. The old TermSuite GUI is now broken. A new GUI based on Eclipse RCP is under development and will be released with TermSuite 2.1.

### Support

If you encounter a problem with TermSuite or have any question, please leave an issue on [Github Issues]({{site.github}}/issues) or address your message directly to Damien Cram or Béatrice Daille (firstname.lastname@univ-nantes.fr).

### Agenda: TermSuite 2.1

TermSuite 2.1 is planned for mars 2016. TermSuite 2.1 will implement:
 * derivational variant detection,
 * graphical user Interface,
 * compositional alignment (bilingual translation + semantical),
 * improved post-processing of extracted terminology.
